---
layout: post
title: "The End of Life as We Knew It: Week 13 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week, we finished up our final project, Life. How poignant that we finish a project titled Life at the end of the semester. We also talked a little more about shadowing and method lookup in Java as well as C++. The `using namespace` expression became an important player in our conversation as we learned how to bring names from a parent classes’ symbol table down the class hierarchy. We also learned that C++ once again moves certain errors to compile time via its method of finding overridden functions, and being able to explicitly declare a function as overridden can also help us out.

# What's in my way?
I can’t say I’m excited about the upcoming test. No one really wants to study over the upcoming break, but we all know we probably should, as we’ll be swamped with work if we don’t. Here’s to another Thanksgiving “break.” I’d be excited to eat turkey, but I’m a vegetarian, and I’m not really into meat substitutes. 

# What will I do next week?
Well, coming up we’ll be discussing handle classes more per the schedule. Since we don’t have any more projects, we can start to focus on the upcoming exam, or we could pursue the extra credit assignment. I might do that, or I might just get started on my next graphics assignment (yes, I have another). Why is 99% of my time spent on 1% of my classes? OCCUPY COMPUTER SCIENCE!

## Tip of the week
For those of you who aren’t old (like I am), you’ve got some time before you graduate to decide what you want to do with your life. If you’ve ever been drawn to the more interesting, research-y problems in computer science (e.g. How can computers ‘see’ objects? How can computers ‘learn’?), you should consider applying to graduate school for the Fall 2018 cycle (or later). Here’s a [link](http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002970) to a paper that talks about agile development of a scientific software package for computational biology. If this kind of stuff sounds like fun, you should seriously consider applying for a Ph.D. in computer science. You can also apply to other interdisciplinary programs; they tend to take students from all kinds of STEM backgrounds these days. And if you want to know more about what it’s like to do research, send me a message and I’ll give you my perspective.
