---
layout: post
title: "Collatzing Under the Pressure: Week 2 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week, I focused on getting my project and its associated development work flow up and running. Travis CI is kind of a neat service, but the interface is kind of confusing in a way. It keeps track of all of your builds, but usually I only care about the most recent commit. That’s better than the alternative, which is to not actually keep track of anything, although I would like to be able to quickly view only my latest commits; perhaps if I explore the interface more, I can figure out a way to do this. In any case, I also learned some cool facts about postfix and prefix operators this week, which are useful for optimization purposes. I also studied some more general optimization techniques, such as tiling the input space, which is incredibly useful for numerical problems.

# What's in my way?
One of my biggest gripes about my experience in this class (and my experience in the department) is the effect of intense competition on our collective behavior and attitudes. The stress and aggravation seem to permeate every real and virtual space inside the CS department, and now there’s an instructor-sanctioned piece of the machinery to add on top: rank. UTCS is already hypercompetitive, with students constantly vying for spots at interviews and internships, while simultaneously trying to “get the grade” (unless you’ve bought into the idea that grades don’t matter, in which case, skip this entire paragraph). While adding a ranking mechanism to the top half of scorers may seem fun and interesting, and will certainly motivate students some students, the students who really need motivation (those students who are not ranked, i.e. in the bottom half of scorers) are only being served negative reinforcement. Is that going to really motivate them, or further galvanize them into accepting their low scores? That’s not for me to say (without enough evidence, at least). Regardless of how it actually affects low-scoring students, I see rank as nothing more than another metric that serves little benefit while adding to the high anxiety that is UT computer science. We don’t need another way to measure ourselves against our classmates. Why not empower students to take control of their grades in other ways? The learning center has plenty of resources for students who want to improve their performance in class. Those should be first and foremost in the minds of students. Save the additional performance metrics and stack ranking for industry.

# What will I do next week?
Next week, our first project is due, and we also need to complete our academic integrity quiz. It looks like there are some collaboration-focused papers to read this week, as well as several career expos. I’ll have some time this week to explore the optimizations we discussed in class and implement them on the Collatz conjecture. I’d really enjoy some lectures on working with teams. There are so many jobs that absolutely require collaboration and communication; honing those skills should make all of us more employable, among other things!

## Tip of the week
Do you like compiling? Do you like using development boards? If you’re anything like me, you like neither of those things, but you find yourself doing both of them often. If only there were a way to compile for a target architecture entirely distinct from that of your development environment! And so to conclude this post, I’ll leave you with a link to a guide on building cross-compilers: 

