---
layout: post
title: "~OOP() { delete _cs371p; }"
---

## The end?
At long last, the final week of OOP has passed. It’s been quite the journey: we learned all about containers, constructors, destructors, allocators, heterogeneous containers, and the intricacies of C++. Last week, we had our last exam, a difficult and fitting end to a long semester of hard work. Now that we’ve covered inheritance, we’ve gotten a much more complete picture of OOD. Hopefully we can carry this (and other ideas from the course) into our future software development. 

# You're not actually still doing work, are you?
If you guessed graphics is still in my way, you’re right. Our final project is due next Sunday, and I’m doing a particle system to simulate flowing water. I’ve already got gravity and collisions working, so next I’ll be focused on working in the calculations for pressure and viscosity of incompressible fluids, which come directly from the Navier-Stokes equations. Did I mention I have a differential equations final this Thursday?

# Okay, but what about after that?
Now that it’s over, I think it’s appropriate to take some time to reflect on the bigger picture. We have learned a great deal about designing classes and containers, and I’m using those design principles already in my graphics programs that I’ve been writing this semester. I also might end up using my knowledge of C++ objects, constructors, and destructors to help rewrite some research software I was working on over the summer. On the whole, I think the class was a serious pain in the ass but worth taking in the end. I’ve got a much better grasp on how to develop in a truly object-oriented style, and I know lots more about C++ to boot. It’s a great language that’s used a lot in scientific programming for its speed, if not its brevity.

## Anything else?
How do computers evaluate differential equations? There are several approaches, each with unique consequences for a given application. The simplest is the Euler method, in which we calculate a new position based on the current velocity and a small ‘time step’. Then, we calculate a new velocity at this new position, and repeat. But there are several problems with this method: if the time step is too large, our approximation will quickly diverge from the integral curve (the analytical solution to the differential equation). I'll leave it to you to explore other, more stable methods.
