---
layout: post
title: "Objectify Me, Cap'n: Week 1 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This past week, I learned about some of the basics of object-oriented programming, including some key differences between C++ and Java. In all honesty, it’s extremely confusing to keep the different implementations of the static keyword straight in my mind. In C/C++, a static function is only viewable within the file in which it is defined, but in Java the static storage specifier allows a class method to be called without instantiating an object. As a side note, the static storage specifier applied to other symbols, such as variables, confers a totally different treatment by the compiler: they're placed in the BSS instead of directly on the stack. I also learned about some of the more common pieces of the software development and deployment toolchain, including tools to measure coverage and perform unit tests. It was nice to follow along as these tools were demonstrated in class. I think the live demonstrations bring the tools to life and serve as good jumping-off points for my own use.

# What's in my way?
One of the burning questions in my mind that wasn’t answered this week relates to the rationale for using the OOP paradigm at all. From a young age, programmers are taught the paramount importance of object-oriented design. We are bombarded by job postings looking for experience with OOP. It seems as though much of today’s software relies on this way of thinking, and yet we were never required to understand the design tasks explored in other kinds of programming languages (e.g. functional, procedural, etc.). This begs a fairly simple set question: why are we studying objects? Why is the study of object-oriented systems and designs so important to the software engineering world? I think a good comparison of OOP to other design paradigms could empower us to design better software by helping us understand why and when we should use objects.

# What will I do next week?
Next week, it looks like the details for our first project will be out, so I’ll probably start working on that. There are a few readings posted on college advice, happiness, and Git that will provide some good information for me (and the quizzes). I'll also have some more fun playing with C++ while my workload is low. This weekend I started on a signal processing project as a way for me to have some fun and bring C++ syntax rules to the front of my mind. There also appears to be assigned reading out of the book. I should probably grab a copy tomorrow at the Co-op…

## Anything else?
I really enjoy walking through examples during class, as I said before. The interactive style of asking students what will happen on line x keeps things interesting. I'm a little concerned that some of the students will feel embarrassed if they aren't able to answer some of the questions. That's one of the eternal challenges of teaching a class interactively. It can be difficult to assess what most students do and do not know prior to enrolling in a course short of enforcing several tangential prerequisites. With that being said, I feel that Downing handles the issue professionally and shows willingness to help the students understand everything in his examples. That's something to admire in an instructor.

## Tip of the week: Sometime this week we were introduced something known as library code. This is code that we link in at compile time to provide us with several new functions and variables (henceforth referred to as symbols) that we can use in our code. But be careful! It matters where we place our flag. According to the online `gcc` documentation, the linker processing libraries and object files in the order in which they appear. Here, and example from the documentation is shown&#58;
`foo.o -lz bar.o`
in which the linker searches for library `z` before processing `bar.o`. If `bar.o` uses functions defined in libary `z`, these functions may not be loaded! So be mindful of where you place your linker flags and library loads.


