---
layout: post
title: "Castaway: Week 12 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week we got to learn more about different types of compile-time and run-time analysis that can be done on objects, including the `dynamic_cast` and `static_cast` functions. One of the coolest things we talked about this week was how to implement heterogeneous containers: using these functions, we can inspect, at runtime, the type of a pointer in our hands, and decide what to do based on what kind of object we’ve got. That’s a pretty nifty trick, one that I’m used to doing a little differently (I used to work more in Python). I’ve also gotten started on Life and plan on finishing within the next couple of days. Now that we have Darwin under our belts, some of the design problems are a bit more familiar, and I can focus on the implementation of the new style of container.

# What's in my way?
Well, I’m still not doing great on the quizzes, but usually I miss questions because of very simple errors that are easy to remember during an exam, so I’m not too worried overall about the upcoming exam. It was difficult to pay attention in any of my classes this week on account of the jarring election results. Hopefully the coming weeks will be a little easier to get through.

# What will I do next week?
We’ve got more papers to read, a project to finish up, and more lectures to attend. I expect we’ll do more on method overriding and shadowing this week. 

## Tip of the week
Here’s a softer tip (and hopefully more of a reminder for most): if you’re planning on coding for several hours in a row, you really shouldn’t. At the very least, you should break it up into smaller chunks of perhaps two or three hours, and then find something else to do in between the chunks for at least 20 or 30 minutes. This part of the semester is particularly stressful notwithstanding the general state of unrest on campus this year, so don’t neglect your health.
