---
layout: post
title: "Spaceballs the Title: Week 3 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This past week marked the first project due date. I spent lots of time writing and testing code, as could be expected. In doing so, I learned is that you can’t necessarily trust someone else’s tests, especially when there are conditions on the input data. If the test writer did not conform to these specifications, then your program may not produce the expected output on these test cases; however, the primary issue is with the input data, not the program logic in this case. 

During class we were also introduced to the concept of references, and we explored the differences between different argument passing methods. In particular we studied the concept of aliasing (although not mentioned by name) that complicates life for compilers and humans alike. I expect we’ll learn more about the exciting world of many-to-one name mapping in the coming weeks.

# What's in my way?
One of my issues has been, ironically, answering the quiz questions correctly in the amount of time given. The quizzes are another reminder that it’s important to read the papers carefully and thoroughly, and they also help you check on how well you’re studying. It would appear my reading and studying could use some work! But that’s easy to fix. 

# What will I do next week?
Coming up this week, it looks like we’ve got more examples on operators and argument passing, as well as some new papers on continuous integration. There’s also an example that covers copying, so I expect we’ll delve into the concepts of deep copies and shallow copies sometime soon. 

## Tip of the week
If you’re running a Linux box at home (say a desktop that you can’t easily bring with you), you may want to be able to log into that machine from outside your home network. Here are a few simple tips for doing so:

1. Set up either a static IP or a reserved IP on your router’s homepage
2. Choose a port to forward from the router to your reserved private IP address
3. Edit /etc/ssh/ssh_config to allow your computer to accept connections by uncommenting the line containing the port number (e.g. Port 22)

Now to login, just run ssh:

`ssh -p [your chosen port] [username]@[router IP address]`
