---
layout: post
title: "2Spooky4OOP: Week 6 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
Lately I’ve been doing more reading and studying than usual for this class on account of the upcoming exam. We’ll have to be able to write C++ code using only interface definitions, which will be challenging unless we prepare properly. So, I’ve started reviewing some of the notes and concepts we laid out over the past several weeks to get started. One of the easiest traps to fall into is convincing yourself that you know the material better than you do, which leads to less than thorough studying and preparation. Hopefully I’ll avoid that trap for this first exam.

# What's in my way?
We seem to be learning lots of neat little tricks in C++ that can help with program design and efficiency, but I’m still not quite sure how to put them all together and create a good software system. Our last assignment presented few, if any, major opportunities to be creative with our code; it felt more like an exercise. While that’s certainly fine for class assignments, I’m hoping that we’ll get more opportunities to solve interesting problems whose solutions aren’t already linked on Piazza. Those kinds of problems require a solid understanding of what we’ve built up so far, so with any luck we’ll see some more involved projects as the semester progresses.

# What will I do next week?
Coming up, exam week! I’ll be doing lots of prep for that, as well as continuing to keep up with assigned readings. Having started to prepare last Friday, I’m remembering what it felt like when I first got to UT, back when I was more organized and less inundated with upper-division projects. Let’s see if I can resurrect that work ethic for one, final year at UT. 

## Tip of the week
Sometimes it might be worth it to declare a subroutine as `inline`. Inlining a function causes the compiler to spit out assembly code from its body in place of a subroutine call whenever the subroutine is invoked in the source file. If the subroutine results in a relatively small number of instructions after compilation, this can mitigate the overhead of subroutine calls for a short function.
