---
layout: post
title: "Netflix and Chill: Week 4 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week was a little different; we had a talk from Chris Martin with Bloomberg, which was pretty interesting. I got to hear about the different development and integration tools that Bloomberg uses every day to make fancy financial analytics software. We also got an introduction to our next project, Netflix, and I got a good start on that. One of the coolest things about C++ that I’ve learned from this class is that you can pretty easily shove a string object into any of the basic types (say int or double) and it works pretty well. 

Additionally, we reviewed types and argument passing, and we discussed the relationship between arrays and pointers in C/C++. The idea that an array is essentially a pointer is not new to me since this is not my first course in a C-style language, but of course review never hurts. In particular, our discussions of passing l-values versus r-values to functions has been illuminating for me. It’s been valuable to learn more about a language that I’ve spent years working with, and I feel like I’m always finding new ways to make my programs better.

# What's in my way?
It seems thus far that we’ve discussed the ins and outs of C++ extensively, in particular how the typing system works and how it’s extended by classes and templates. I’m really interested in getting into a discussion about object-oriented programming itself, and learning more about how it’s implemented at the application level. Although I think it’s important that we continue discussing C++, the fundamentals of object oriented programming should go along with it.

# What will I do next week?
Next up: finishing Netflix. I’m actually kind of surprised that we’re doing a machine-learning-esque project in this class considering the only prerequisite is a hardware systems course. With that in mind, I expect the algorithms will be relatively simplistic. We’ve got more papers to come, more work on iterators and functions to do, and a project due. Cool!

## Tip of the week
Do you hate your hard drive? Do you want to destroy every addressable byte on it? With `dd`, you can:

`dd -if=/dev/zero -of=/dev/sdX -bs=4096`

Replace `X` with the letter of your favorite device and watch the fireworks. Want to write pseudorandom data instead? Try using `-if=/dev/random`. 

Disclaimer: I’m not responsible if you use this foolishly and destroy your boot sector. 
