---
layout: post
title: "Lamarck: Week 10 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
Well, this week was a pretty cut-and-dry week, full of lectures and project work and (for me) a graphics midterm (spoiler alert: everyone claims to have failed, myself included). Aside from the never-ending list of projects and tests that mark every October, this past week saw us take a still closer look at the vector class. More importantly, my partner and I dove into an object-oriented design for our Darwin project. The name of the game is encapsulation: how do you hide an object’s implementation completely but still provided a useful interface? We think we have a pretty good handle on that now, and are in the coding phase of our project. 

# What's in my way?
Why were we taught silly things in high school? For example, in my introductory computer science course, we were trained to provide getters and setters for many of our objects. While not illegal, these methods, in revealing an object’s implementation, completely obliterate any semblance of object-oriented design. In chemistry, we are brought up with the Bohr model, and progressively move to more realistic, accurate models such as electron clouds. Getters and setters do not simplify object-oriented programming in the same way the Bohr model simplifies chemistry; in fact, it runs counter to a key design principle. 

# What will I do next week?
Next week Darwin is due, and I’m about to return to working with my partner. I’ve also got a graphics project due next Thursday, so we’ve made it our goal to finish as early as possible since we’re both in graphics. I’m glad we had fewer quizzes last week, but I could have used the lack of quizzes more effectively this week. Maybe.

## Tip of the week
Is negative zero the same as nonnegative zero? In two’s complement arithmetic, they certainly have the same representation. But in floating-point representation, they usually don’t. However, you might find that,

```c++
float a = 0.0f;
float b = -0.0f;
std::cout << a == b << std::endl;
```

prints true. Why is this? I have no goddamn clue. Why is this important? Well, let’s say you are working with logarithms and exponentials (which are computed using approximations), and you are writing unit tests (or maybe you expect to work with unfriendly input). It is often useful to define the logarithm of nonnegative zero to be negative infinity (since the limit as x approaches negative infinity from the right of log(x) is negative infinity), and then define the logarithm of negative zero to be NaN (because the respective limit from the left does not exist). So, if you need to discriminate between these cases, you may have to do some extra work.
