---
layout: post
title: "Survival of the Fittest: Week 9 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week we went more in depth about how to build containers in C++, including how to write constructors, destructors, and how allow our container to use custom allocators. I had never considered the idea of using a custom allocator (or what an allocator was) prior to taking this class, so this topic has been interesting for me so far. Our last project was a nice exploration of this topic, and it wasn’t terribly difficult or time consuming. The last time I studied the heap was in my systems class (we discussed different kinds of heap management techniques, including first fit, which we used for our project). 

# What's in my way?
I’ve hear our upcoming project, Darwin, is a lot of work. So, I’m a little apprehensive about the amount of time I’ll have to spend on it. It seems like there will be a lot more code and unit testing to be done for this project, so I’ll have to manage my time wisely.

# What will I do next week?
Coming up, we’ve got a new project to start, which we’ll be discussing Monday in class, as well as some more papers to read for the week’s quizzes. In addition to this class, I’ve also got a midterm coming up on Thursday. Scheduling is the name of the game for the next couple of weeks. I’d rather be running the ostrich algorithm. 

## Tip of the week
Many of us write code late at night, often near the time we go to sleep. Several articles have been written about the deleterious effects of exposure to blue light before going to bed. While I won’t list them here (I’ll leave it up to you to accept/refute my claim), I will point you to your favorite package manager to install redshift (Linux) or flux (Windows). 
