---
layout: post
title: "Heap it On: Week 8 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
We finally got around to talking about the heap this week – what it’s for, why we need it, and the potential dangers of using it. Most of us aren’t strangers to the heap (in fact, my first college computer science course involved using the heap in C++), but now we’ll get to study in depth how the heap can be managed using “sentinels” around allocated space. We also learned that there is an asymmetry to the  type system when it comes to allocating and initializing values, which is really irritating, because inconsistencies in the language can lead to inconsistencies in the way our programs behave. I suppose understanding these intricacies makes us more valuable developers.

# What's in my way?
My rank hasn’t been updated in a while, and I’m pretty sure it’s because Canvas does not drop quiz grades yet, or maybe the rank has to be manually updated. I’m not entirely sure how rank is currently maintained, but I’m not sure if I’m actually in the bottom half of the class or if my rank just hasn’t been updated in a while.

# What will I do next week?
Coming up, we’ve got more papers to read about OOP concepts, and more lectures on the vector container. The allocator project is due this week, so I’ll be spending some quality time with my partner this week getting that pushed out. 

## Tip of the week
If you’re using a function like `transform` that operates on your data using mostly elementary operations (+, -, etc.), you may want to accelerate the computation by using vector intrinsics. These functions, while specific to the processor architecture of your device, can allow for operations on multiple elements of a given type in a single clock cycle. Read about [Intel's AVX instruction set] to get started.

[Intel's AVX instruction set]: https://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/introduction-to-intel-advanced-vector-extensions
