---
layout: post
title: "I Ran Out of Titles Last Week: Week 11 of OOP"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week was pretty busy! My partner and I finished up the Darwin project early Thursday evening, leaving me to work some more on my graphics project. Aside from the onslaught of projects and exams (I took an exam last Thursday as well), we discussed some neat tricks, accomplished by the move function, to mimic an r-value to allow STL objects to transcend the scope of their native functions. It’s kind of amazing how much machinery the STL hides underneath its interface, and exploring it has been worthwhile so far. 

# What's in my way?
I can’t complain much about this class this week. If you really want to know what’s in my way, ask me how my graphics project is going. I’ve never done so much geometry in my life. Well, not since my geometry course from high school. And that was mostly two-dimensional. Have you ever done matrix algebra and projective geometry in four dimensions?

# What will I do next week?
After a long wait, we’re finally getting to inheritance this coming week. I imagine that’s what most people think of when they hear “object-oriented design” and related terms. True, inheritance and the code reusability that’s supposed to come with it represent some of the greatest benefits of using OOD principles in software development. But if we’ve learned anything this semester, it’s that there’s so much more to it than class relationships. 

## Tip of the week
`gcc` is capable of auto-vectorization. What does that mean? Consider the following code:

```c++
void f(int *a, int *b, int *c, size_t n)
{
	For (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
		*a = *b + *c;
}
```

If you compile your code at `-O3`, or enable the `-ftree-vectorize` option, the compiler will use the SIMD instructions provided by your ISA to compute the assignments in `f`.
