---
layout: post
title: "Unit Tests: Great for Users, Annoying for Developers (Week 5 of OOP)"
---

## What did I do this past week?
This week we discussed even more about C++ and its wonders: iterators, containers, types, the whole shebang. We discussed a seemingly useless function called fill(), which only fills the interior portions of a container. There must be a reason to use this function, but I haven’t found it yet. Maybe that comes later. Either way, one of the more interesting topics was that of iterators and their capabilities, and the existence of a sort of “contract” between algorithm developers and container writers. The existence of this contract is yet another example of the semi-enforced world of standards in software development. Although we do have several conventions and standards, no one is technically required to follow them. This leads to disparities in software development and implementation, which can be annoying. Such is the curse of an open, (somewhat) democratic environment.

# What's in my way?
Good lord, unit testing is a pain. Even worse is knowing that for every new function I write in my projects, I need to write more unit tests to cover the code! Although the process helps reduce the overall bug count in the code, it can seem more of a nuisance during development. Sometimes the design of unit tests also raises more basic questions: how do you unit test a function that is, by design, stochastic or inexact? How can you design a unit test that accounts for minor variations in input data? One of the best ways to do this is by mocking the data in the test suite and calculating results by hand.

# What will I do next week?
Next up, more reading on bugs! I’ve read about the Patriot missile before (in other classes here at UT in fact), but I guess it will be useful to reread how poor software development killed several American troops. More examples on iterators appear in the schedule, but not much else. Looks like we’ve got an exam coming up in a couple weeks, so it’ll be time to prep for that.

## Tip of the week
Sometimes when working on large projects that use complex data types, it’s useful to write functions that help you print out values in those data structures. While seemingly trivial, it can make debugging a little less painful. Here’s an example that might work for a structure that packs values into a vector-like data structure, using an `ostringstream` object.

```
std::ostringstream o;
o << data[0] << “, “ << data[1] << “, “ << data[2] << std::endl;
return o;
 ```
